Academics has never been my strong suit. Unlike most of my peers in high school, who spent a large portion of their time on completing assignments and studying for exams, I always looked for interesting ideas and fun projects to build my experience outside of the classroom. When I was 14, I came across a method of configuring disks that would increase storage efficiency on the internet and decided to try it out. Along with a couple of my friends, we were able to build a portable drive capable of transferring 1GB of data per second, which was ten times faster than what products on the market offered at the time. Though we met significant resistance during the marketing process and had to eventually halt the project, the idea of using my creativity and effort to create something that could make a change really stuck with me.

When I entered high school, I formed a group of space hobbyists to try to launch a high-altitude probe into the stratosphere, hoping to recover both video footage and data at 100,000 feet in the air. After several months of careful planning and execution, our low-orbit probe was successfully launched and recovered. Seeing the potential of this project, we decided to use our expertise to do more to the world. We called Sony while preparing for our second launch with the offer of sending their sports camera into the stratosphere and using the footage to launch a marketing campaign for the product in exchange for sponsorship. It took us 3 months before a consensus was reached and the partnership started. What followed was another smooth launch, except with a greater goal in mind. Though I had moments of doubt on whether doing so much outside of the classroom was a wise decision, I could give up on something that has greater meaning than myself. My belief was further solidified when Sony began to advertise its product using materials we gathered and started receiving positive reviews online.

Little by little, I began to see the beauty of innovation through these extracurricular experiences as well as its importance. It shaped a large part of my college application and likely helped me to get into colleges that I would not be able to get into with my mediocre GPA and SAT score. Looking back, I am thankful that I had the courage to sacrifice some of my study time to attempt things that might not have worked out. As I moved to college, and even during COVID-19, I am still trying to find ways to benefit society with my ideas and actions. After all,  trying out new ideas and doing what other people don’t do are just as important as building one’s knowledge through books and past experience.

- T.X., undergraduate at University of California, Los Angeles